# Statistical analysis of systematic differences in the calculated pollutant concentrations of the models ECMWF / CAMS (Regional Reanalysis) and Polyphemus / DLR


Thesis Title: Statistical analysis of systematic differences in the calculated pollutant concentrations of the models ECMWF / CAMS (Regional Reanalysis) and Polyphemus / DLR
Abstract: 
In the last two decades, air pollution was viewed as a very serious issue due to the development of infrastructure all over the world. Environmental stressors such as air temperature, radiation, humidity, wind, noise, pollens, and air pollutants (e.g., ozone, nitrogen oxides, and particulate matter) can affect human health in a variety of ways. With the Copernicus services and the measurements of the European Environmental Agency, a wealth of data of unprecedented quality and spatiotemporal resolution are available. These data are supplemented by available spatiotemporal high-resolution numerical models like chemical-transport models for the comprehensive description of the environmental conditions. Their advantages are constant coverage and high spatial and temporal resolution. However, it is very important to assess the model performances and its comparability with in-situ or satellite observations. The main focus of this research is to perform a comparison of the outputs of the Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service (CAMS) – Europe Air Quality Reanalysis data and the chemical transport model POLYPHEMUS/DLR, with the in-situ measurements (station data). The scope is to assess the discrepancies concerning the different chemical species and to provide statistical indicators like Mean Bias, FGE, RMSE, and Trend Analysis and correction weights describing the different behaviours of the models. Also, a Machine Learning approach was performed as an exploratory task, with the scope to identify the importance of the input parameters of the Polyphemus model in predicting concentration values recorded by in-situ stations. From the results, it was derived that Polyphemus/ DLR model overestimates NO2,  PM2.5, and PM10 and underestimates the O3, concentrations in urban and rural areas respectively over the time window with CAMS presenting values more comparable with the EEA Air Quality Station data.  This comparison study will help to understand the model performances (overestimation and underestimation) for each of the pollutants and help to select modelled data for several health and air pollution-related research in the future.
Files added:
The R scripts and thesis results (maps and plots) are attached in the repository for reference.
The R scipts are directly downloadable from the repository. All the scripts are commented well and easy to understand.
The Result maps and plots are added as zip files due to size constrains. They are easily downloadable as zip files. All the results from each statistical analyses are clearly seperated in different folders for easy understanding. 

